README.md, before:

This is the project repo for the final project of the Udacity Self-Driving Car Nanodegree: Programming a Real Self-Driving Car. For more information about the project, see the project introduction [here](https://classroom.udacity.com/nanodegrees/nd013/parts/6047fe34-d93c-4f50-8336-b70ef10cb4b2/modules/e1a23b06-329a-4684-a717-ad476f0d8dff/lessons/462c933d-9f24-42d3-8bdc-a08a5fc866e4/concepts/5ab4b122-83e6-436d-850f-9f4d26627fd9).

### Native Installation

* Be sure that your workstation is running Ubuntu 16.04 Xenial Xerus or Ubuntu 14.04 Trusty Tahir. [Ubuntu downloads can be found here](https://www.ubuntu.com/download/desktop).
* If using a Virtual Machine to install Ubuntu, use the following configuration as minimum:
  * 2 CPU
  * 2 GB system memory
  * 25 GB of free hard drive space

  The Udacity provided virtual machine has ROS and Dataspeed DBW already installed, so you can skip the next two steps if you are using this.

* Follow these instructions to install ROS
  * [ROS Kinetic](http://wiki.ros.org/kinetic/Installation/Ubuntu) if you have Ubuntu 16.04.
  * [ROS Indigo](http://wiki.ros.org/indigo/Installation/Ubuntu) if you have Ubuntu 14.04.
* [Dataspeed DBW](https://bitbucket.org/DataspeedInc/dbw_mkz_ros)
  * Use this option to install the SDK on a workstation that already has ROS installed: [One Line SDK Install (binary)](https://bitbucket.org/DataspeedInc/dbw_mkz_ros/src/81e63fcc335d7b64139d7482017d6a97b405e250/ROS_SETUP.md?fileviewer=file-view-default)
* Download the [Udacity Simulator](https://github.com/udacity/CarND-Capstone/releases/tag/v1.2).

### Docker Installation
[Install Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/installation/)

Build the docker container
```bash
docker build . -t capstone
```

Run the docker file
```bash
docker run -p 127.0.0.1:4567:4567 -v $PWD:/capstone -v /tmp/log:/root/.ros/ --rm -it capstone
```

### Usage

1. Clone the project repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/udacity/CarND-Capstone.git
```

2. Install python dependencies
```bash
cd CarND-Capstone
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
3. Make and run styx
```bash
cd ros
catkin_make
source devel/setup.sh
roslaunch launch/styx.launch
```
4. Run the simulator

### Real world testing
1. Download [training bag](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B2_h37bMVw3iYkdJTlRSUlJIamM/view?usp=sharing) that was recorded on the Udacity self-driving car (a bag demonstraing the correct predictions in autonomous mode can be found [here](https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B2_h37bMVw3iT0ZEdlF4N01QbHc))
2. Unzip the file
```bash
unzip traffic_light_bag_files.zip
```
3. Play the bag file
```bash
rosbag play -l traffic_light_bag_files/loop_with_traffic_light.bag
```
4. Launch your project in site mode
```bash
cd CarND-Capstone/ros
roslaunch launch/site.launch
```
5. Confirm that traffic light detection works on real life images

Commit message:

some cleanup after testing on gpu

README.md, after:

# System Integration Project
### Udacity Self Driving Car Term 3

This is the project repo for the final project of the Udacity Self-Driving Car Nanodegree: Programming a Real Self-Driving Car. For more information about the project, see the project introduction [here](https://classroom.udacity.com/nanodegrees/nd013/parts/6047fe34-d93c-4f50-8336-b70ef10cb4b2/modules/e1a23b06-329a-4684-a717-ad476f0d8dff/lessons/462c933d-9f24-42d3-8bdc-a08a5fc866e4/concepts/5ab4b122-83e6-436d-850f-9f4d26627fd9).

### Overview

The goal of this project was to integrate the various systems and modules of a self driving car so as to successfully pilot a car in a simulator and then a real car (CARLA). The car should be able to plot its own course, and identify and respond to traffic lights.

![](images/final-project-ros-graph-v2.png)

The primary modules are:

### 1. Waypoint Planning

This module charts the desired course for the car and the desired speed. This module is responsible for integrating the information about traffic lights and car state and map to determine the best course. In this project it was fairly simple: if a red light is ahead, slow down. Otherwise the path was that of the road itself.

### 2. Control

This module was responsible for controlling the car along the desired course. A PID controller was used for the speed while the steering controls were handled by a yaw controller fed by pure_pursuit.cpp.

### 3. Vision (Traffic light sensing and classification)

The traffic light module: ros/src/tl_detector idenitifes traffic lights in a camera feed and classifies them as Red, Yellow, or Green. This was accomplished by using a state of the art SSD trained by google and a simple opencv color thresholding script. Due to tensorflow version conflicts, resnet was used on the final version instead of the faster SSD mobilenet. On modest hardware this led to some interesting problems caused by the lag, optimizations are needed.

![](images/greenlight.png)


### Native Installation

* Be sure that your workstation is running Ubuntu 16.04 Xenial Xerus or Ubuntu 14.04 Trusty Tahir. [Ubuntu downloads can be found here](https://www.ubuntu.com/download/desktop).
* If using a Virtual Machine to install Ubuntu, use the following configuration as minimum:
  * 2 CPU
  * 2 GB system memory
  * 25 GB of free hard drive space

  The Udacity provided virtual machine has ROS and Dataspeed DBW already installed, so you can skip the next two steps if you are using this.

* Follow these instructions to install ROS
  * [ROS Kinetic](http://wiki.ros.org/kinetic/Installation/Ubuntu) if you have Ubuntu 16.04.
  * [ROS Indigo](http://wiki.ros.org/indigo/Installation/Ubuntu) if you have Ubuntu 14.04.
* [Dataspeed DBW](https://bitbucket.org/DataspeedInc/dbw_mkz_ros)
  * Use this option to install the SDK on a workstation that already has ROS installed: [One Line SDK Install (binary)](https://bitbucket.org/DataspeedInc/dbw_mkz_ros/src/81e63fcc335d7b64139d7482017d6a97b405e250/ROS_SETUP.md?fileviewer=file-view-default)
* Download the [Udacity Simulator](https://github.com/udacity/CarND-Capstone/releases/tag/v1.2).

### Docker Installation
[Install Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/installation/)

Build the docker container
```bash
docker build . -t capstone
```

Run the docker file
```bash
docker run -p 127.0.0.1:4567:4567 -v $PWD:/capstone -v /tmp/log:/root/.ros/ --rm -it capstone
```

### Usage

1. Clone the project repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/udacity/CarND-Capstone.git
```

2. Install python dependencies
```bash
cd CarND-Capstone
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
3. Make and run styx
```bash
cd ros
catkin_make
source devel/setup.sh
roslaunch launch/styx.launch
```
4. Run the simulator

### Real world testing
1. Download [training bag](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B2_h37bMVw3iYkdJTlRSUlJIamM/view?usp=sharing) that was recorded on the Udacity self-driving car (a bag demonstraing the correct predictions in autonomous mode can be found [here](https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B2_h37bMVw3iT0ZEdlF4N01QbHc))
2. Unzip the file
```bash
unzip traffic_light_bag_files.zip
```
3. Play the bag file
```bash
rosbag play -l traffic_light_bag_files/loop_with_traffic_light.bag
```
4. Launch your project in site mode
```bash
cd CarND-Capstone/ros
roslaunch launch/site.launch
```
5. Confirm that traffic light detection works on real life images
